[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: This
season on "Open Minds,"
I've teamed up
with Freddy Silva,
author and world-renowned
expert on sacred sites.
Paola Harris, investigative
journalist and author
in the field of
extraterrestrial-related
phenomena.
Local Sardinia guide Rosela
Loto, and Luigi Muscas,
a leading researcher
on giant bones
in Sardinia, who has
discovered evidence pointing
to the connection between
the island of Sardinia
and the ancient
culture of Atlantis.
Their elaborate stone sites,
roughly 7,000 of them,
are sprinkled all over the
island, revealing tombs, bones,
and highly sophisticated
architecture.
It's speculated that
people from Atlantis,
including a giant
race of people,
emigrated to Sardinia with
their great knowledge,
leaving their tombs and
temples called nuraghe behind.
With help from a team
of remote viewers led
by Angela Thompson,
local Sardinia
legends, and the writings
of Edgar Cayce and Ruth
Montgomery, we uncover a deeper
understanding of these giants,
their nuraghe, and the
mystery surrounding
their incredible
history on this island.
>>FREDDY SILVA: We're
taking little breadcrumbs
and trying to make a wonderful
loaf of bread out of it.
>>REGINA: The message
that there may
have been highly
sophisticated cultures
before our current time
begs many questions
that we've been grappling with.
Why did they disappear?
And how many more are there
buried under the sands of time?
[THEME MUSIC]
Hi, everybody.
We're here in absolutely
stunningly beautiful Sardinia.
And today I'm with Freddy Silva,
who we've been out in the field
together.
We've made some
stunning discoveries
which we're going to be
talking about in just a sec.
First, I want to get some
of your impressions about--
your first impressions
about being out in the field
just among this raw land
and these ancient sites.
>>SILVA: It was nice
being in a place
where you know
very little about,
or little has been
written about,
and it's full of surprises.
It's blowing my mind
every single time.
The age of things,
such as the fact
that we're sitting on the oldest
rocks in Europe to begin with,
which is quite stunning.
The landscape is extraordinary.
But it's the level
and depth of history
that's here that few
people know about.
It's kind of rare to be in that
situation in the 21st century
where you go somewhere
and you can think, oh,
we have raw material
here we can work with.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I mean, I was shocked.
>>SILVA: How we're
connected to other things.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And researching, you know for
yourself, starting to research
before we came here.
They never really spoke a
lot about the nuraghe even.
>>SILVA: No.
And in fact, by the
time the Greeks show up,
people just had these
myths and stories to tell,
and there was
superstition about things.
In fact, no one
even remembers why
they were called the
towers of the giants
or the tombs of the giants.
It seems to have been in the
vernacular, in the folklore.
But it was so lost to
history in the mist of time
that they're just stories.
But the stories
is where we begin
because those are
the things that
contain the kernel
of the information
that we're looking for.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that was so
interesting going out
in the field in our last
episode, talking with Luigi
whose family
history is very much
tied to what some call
the legends of the giants.
And they say, no.
These are our ancestors.
So first of all, what was
interesting is I called you,
and you had just finished this
book called "Missing Lands."
And I thought, how
convenient is this?
"Missing Lands" is
coming out right
when we call you to see about
looking for what might be
another of the missing lands.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
I mean, the thing
that fascinates me
about the research into
ancient civilizations
and a missing
civilization at that
was that we've been so focused
on things like Atlantis
or Lemuria.
But we've blinkered
ourselves to the point where
we don't think beyond that.
And it's been an
extraordinary revelation
to realize that there are
other places that are missing.
There are other
stories which talk
about missing people
and missing sages
and magicians and
priests that came
from different
parts of the world.
Seven of them, as far
as I can figure out.
And I think Sardinia kind
of fits into this paradigm.
There's a lot of
things here which
seem to fit in very
nicely with the stories
that we hear in other parts of
the world, as far away as Peru,
as far away as Easter
Island and even Orkney.
So there's something here that
obviously merits attention.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So Freddy, first of all, why
did you write "Missing Lands?"
We're going to tie that
story in because it
lays a really nice
backdrop for what we're
going to see when we
go out in the field
with these incredible
ancient sites.
What were you trying to bring
to the world in "Missing Lands?"
>>SILVA: The humanity of it.
We hear so much about
Plato and we hear so much
about things which he had done
on a very scholarly level,
but there's a humanity
missing, you know?
And for me it was
about the people.
Who were these people that
we keep talking about?
There are these
missing civilizations
that we hear about, the
Anu and the Anunnaki.
And they begin a very
bad sort of time--
PR, in terms of PR.
They're always seen in
a very negative light.
That wasn't my intention at
all, and it wasn't certainly
my impression.
And I wanted to bring that
out in a positive way,
in the way that was written
a long, long time ago,
and connect all those
dots and figure out,
why were these people here?
Where did they live?
What was their purpose?
And why did they live separately
from the rest of the human race
all the time?
They seemed to be on
islands all the time.
They seemed to keep
away from humanity,
but they were very much focused
on the development of humanity.
They were very
concerned about where
we were going from
hunter gatherers
into another level of education.
So that's what fascinated
me about the whole thing.
And again, I never
have any idea where
I'm going with these projects.
I let the story and the
evidence reveal itself
and see how it all connects.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you follow
the breadcrumbs, basically.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And then
start tying it together.
>>SILVA: A piece of
bread from breadcrumbs.
And sometimes the bread
crumbs end up nowhere,
and you just let it go.
But sometimes the
breadcrumbs do come together
and you start putting together
this wonderful recipe,
and it speaks for itself.
You take your ego out of it.
You let the people
in the old days--
not the scholars, because so
much of what we know today
comes from a westerly,
Anglo-Saxon approach,
and they always never--
>>REGINA: Total scientific
materialism, you know?
Trying to date things,
carbon date things that
can't be carbon dated even.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Like rocks.
>>REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
[LAUGHTER]
And then when were
the rocks actually
chiseled in place there?
That's a whole other subject.
So you identified
seven different kind
of-- what some call the navel
centers of modern civilization.
And modern means essentially
after the great deluge,
about 11,000, 12,000
years ago, right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So after that,
we sometimes tap into
what happened before.
It's very difficult because the
world was covered in mud, OK?
And you and I talked about this
out in the field quite a bit.
What we're looking
at as our evidence
is only what we can see.
So much layered, all
these civilizations
layered underneath it.
And let's for a moment go
back to the Atlantis myth
because in Sardinia, they do
not believe this is a myth.
Nor did Plato, nor did
Aristotle, nor did Herodotus.
They all believe
Sardinia was Atlantis.
So let's talk about the
Atlantis-Sardinia interface
from your perspective.
>>SILVA: There's a certain
overlap that happens here.
The Egyptians basically were
telling Solon the story,
and Solon gives it to his son.
His son gives it to Plato.
Plato uses the mechanism
of myth in order
to make sort of a play
out of it in a way
that you can remember the story.
And they were in no uncertainty
that the land originally
was in the middle
of the Atlantic,
which is where it gets its name.
The same story appears
in the Yucatan as well.
The people of Atel, which
is what they called it.
But what we don't
seem to understand
is that the empire upon
which Atlantis was based
was spread out throughout the--
>>REGINA: And this
is the key point here
and where people get confused,
like the Roman Empire.
No, Britain wasn't
Rome, but it did
have Roman presence, Roman
features, and roads and so
forth.
So let's pick it up from there.
I agree with you.
And that was what intrigued
me about doing this story,
because of the
story of the giants
and even in biblical
texts talking
about the presence
of giants on Earth
and giants on Atlantis in
the day, and then the giants
here in the story that this
was believed to be Atlantis.
This all became the
point of intrigue for me.
So pick it up and talk
about these places
that the Atlanteans had
outposts, so to speak.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I mean, their empire
apparently covered Libya.
Not the country
that we know today,
but Libya was basically
the whole of North Africa.
It was extended through Menorca
and Mallorca, part of which
are now sunk as well.
And they also covered
a lot of the territory
around the Mediterranean,
the coastline.
So that essentially-- the
Atlantean empire, according
to the traditions,
almost abutted
the Egyptian empire, which
itself is dated about 36,000
BC, according to
the King List, which
has written in
the Turin papyrus.
>>REGINA: And according to the
hermetics, even further back.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: So we're talking about
a very long time, most of which
has been lost because
of constant catastrophe.
That's the problem.
We're looking for things
under the surface,
literally and metaphorically.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: So you had this
essence of a concept
of an influence of an empire.
But what I like to
look at is the myths,
because the myths are
a wonderful mechanism
for recording great information.
But you have to understand what
the myth is trying to tell you
and the language and the
symbology used in the myth.
And once you start
doing that, once you
start getting into the
nitty gritty of what
the myth is saying,
you can compare it
to other parts of the world.
And in Sardinia
especially, there's
a lot of overlaps with other
stories from other parts
of the world, and it talks about
this worldwide brotherhood.
And sisterhood.
There was all-- the
woman was always
the central issue in this.
She always held the wisdom
of the entire brotherhood.
But there were these
groups of people
who I never thought
were actually connected,
but it turns out
they all are, which
is another reason
for writing the book.
It was about showing how
it wasn't just the Anu.
It was also about the
people of the serpent
and all these other
people who were--
we talked about the Viracocha,
for example, who were also
called the Shining Ones.
Well, those appear
in the Middle East.
Well, all of their traits
appear here in Sardinia as well,
and they're remembered
in the place names.
This is the reason why
no one can understand
why they're called
places of the giants
or the burial
places of the jina.
But those words have a specific
meaning somewhere else,
and that's how we
unravel the story.
>>REGINA: And one
of the features
is that these are very
large-statured people, anywhere
up to 10, 12, 13 feet tall,
perhaps even a little taller
here in Sardinia.
There's a division that
you make here where
there are the very tall ones.
Then we start moving
into the giant ones.
And one of the traits
they have in common
that you mention in your
book, which really piqued me--
I was reading your book, and
what had already piqued me here
doing some research were these
large-statured beings that
are depicted-- you
can see in Cagliari
in the museum in
these stone figures
with these inexplicably
large eyes.
And I thought, wait a minute.
Freddy's book is talking
about the same thing.
They're depicted with these
large eyes everywhere.
And it occurred
to me that that's
symbolic for the
ones who can see,
the ones with sight or vision.
>>SILVA: The awoken one.
>>REGINA: Right.
And we talked about it.
And you said, that's your
same perception on it.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And that goes--
that's actually found
in the Middle East and Persia.
It goes back, again,
to the lords of Anu
who were also the sages.
And the original
name really means
an enlightened or awoken
person spiritually
and also intellectually.
And the symbol for that
was the eye is wide open.
>>REGINA: And they're
right here in Sardinia.
And let's talk about
some of the other places
that you research in your
book that had these--
symbolically the people depicted
in the same way as larger
than normal with large eyes.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I mean, in Edfu, if you look at
one of the panels of the Edfu
text in the Temple
of Edfu in Egypt,
they actually give
them an actual height.
And depending which
qubit you're using,
because it could be the
royal or the sacred qubit--
>>REGINA: Since none of
us know what a qubit is,
just tell us in feet
and inches, or meters.
>>SILVA: It basically ends
up at eight and a half feet
to 10 feet.
Either way, they're very tall,
which actually synchronizes
with the size of
the bones that we
keep finding from
here all the way
over to Britain in
the giants' graves.
After that, we get
into giant people,
and that's where the story
gets a little bit confusing
because we're
talking about people
who then interbred with humans.
They became half-human,
half-divine.
And it was problematic
at the beginning
because their DNA apparently
didn't match human DNA.
It caused all kinds
of abnormalities.
But one of the things
that came from this
was a giantess statue.
And you hear this in
Sardinia, in Southern Europe,
in India, in Asia, all the
way through Easter Island
in the Solomon Islands.
>>REGINA: And I've recently
heard even in Bolivia,
although that's not known yet.
>>SILVA: Yeah, the DNA
tracks all the way back
to the Black Sea,
oddly enough, which
is kind of the area,
the general area where
the Anu used to live.
So these things are beginning
to converge together.
They're beginning to overlap.
And that's what makes the
story kind of compelling
because there was some kind of--
I mean, the original sort
of watchers of the Anu
who were part of the
same group of people,
they were told not to
intermix with human women
because there was a
problem with genetics.
And of all people, the
Wichita of Oklahoma
still had the story
about saying that when
the tall people
intermixed with us,
the women died in childbirth.
So the babies were born
as the size of infants,
and that's still
in their memory.
And the Hopi talk
about this as well.
So it's not just Sardinia.
It's also all around the world.
>>REGINA: Well, and this
is also in religious texts,
the talk of giants.
Even in some--
I was talking to a girlfriend
before we came here,
and she said, oh,
that's so interesting.
She said, in my
son's Sunday school
they used to teach
that Adam and Eve--
Adam was 25 feet
tall and Eve was
23 feet tall in her Christian--
Christian Sunday school.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: As a matter
of fact, to little five,
six, seven-year-olds, right?
And they'll accept
it, no problem.
But as soon as you become
an adult, you say, no.
I mean, even here
it's so interesting.
It's, we'll ask the Sardinian
people about the giants.
We've come for the giants.
And they're, giants?
Yeah.
All the tombs that
say tomba di giganti.
And they'll say, no giants.
What giants?
>>SILVA: And where did the
story come from, I wonder?
>>REGINA: And the thing is,
it just seems to be obscure.
It's just accepted that these
are called tombs of the giants,
and the purpose for them to
have existed to begin with
has faded away long ago.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That understanding.
So that's what we're
trying to bring back here.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And the nuraghe, which is
the towers of the giants.
And again, you're
kind of baffled
by why they called it
nuraghe, the Nuragic people.
We hear about this,
but who were they?
Where did they come from?
Well, I was looking at the
origin of words, which is--
in the old days they
didn't just make up words.
It meant something.
It was describing something.
And I had to go through
all these old languages
in the middle of
the Mediterranean.
Libya, Algeria, and
eventually ended up in Malta.
And the word actually
exists in Malta,
that nuraghe actually means
a wise or justful person,
a rightful person.
In other words, a wisdom keeper.
So the towers of these
tall people, the giants
were the towers or the places
where the tall wisdom keepers
used to live.
So they were places of assembly.
Now, that changes the
story considerably
because we have the
parallel story somewhere
in Asia Minor with the original
version of the Book of Enoch
that talks about the
assembly of the Anu, which
is in these towers
which are all shaped
like beehives on the inside.
And you see them all around
the world, the same towers.
>>REGINA: We're going to take
an amazing tour of these.
We're taking everybody with
us in a few minutes here.
>>SILVA: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
This is the fun part.
And Luigi-- yes.
And Luigi's talking
about this as well,
that in his understanding of
it through his family lineage
that it these beings who came
and helped assemble the towers.
And then the
structures that were
built around them, most
of which have fallen away
and are just rubble now,
were built for the people
where the ceremonies
happen inside
for the builders
of the mountains.
But there's this twist to
that we'll get to a little
later as well.
So now who are you seeing
the builders to be?
The Shining Ones,
the same ones that
have come to these various
places around the Earth
pre-deluge, right?
Antediluvian times when
let's just stick with the--
I like the convenience of it,
so let's stick with the Atlantis
story for a moment
as a starting place
because we're going
to go all over.
And it was known in the
day there were people
that had vision and sight.
It was known that these
catastrophes were happening
and were going to be occurring.
They had foreknowledge of it.
There were people that were
able to reposition themselves
to be of service once
this deluge occurred,
to be able to replant knowledge
into civilization again
and help raise civilization a
little faster than if people
were just left struggling
in caves, right?
And so we have that, and then
we also have survivors, right?
Living in outposts
around the world.
So let's say it's a
combination of the two.
The people of knowledge, are
these the ones that you're
calling here the nuraghe?
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
Yeah, every indication
is that they
are the same people that
we find in the Middle East
and also in Easter Island, in
South America, and Yucatan.
All around the world.
They have the same methodology.
They're master astronomers.
They're great navigators.
>>REGINA: Mathematicians.
Yep.
>>SILVA: Mathematicians.
They totally understand the laws
of nature, how to bend them.
You hear this again
and again and again.
So if people weren't
getting around much back,
you know, 15,000
years ago, I wonder
where these stories came from
that are completely similar.
>>REGINA: And
sophisticated-- yes,
and sophisticated
agricultural practices,
which were necessary
to rebuild cultures.
>>SILVA: And suddenly
from that point on,
where were these people that
appear in the narrative?
And the Mesopotamian
narrative is
where we get most of
the information from,
which is the narrative that
the Sumerians borrowed that was
borrowed by the Babylonians--
>>REGINA: That's where
everything keeps get hung--
>>SILVA: The biblical people.
And then you get
confused by dogma.
But if you go back to
the origin of things,
they talk about there was a
civilization that ran parallel
with hunter gatherers, and
it was they who drip feed
knowledge to the humans
in a way that doesn't--
it's sort of concurrent with
their level of understanding,
because if you give
advanced knowledge to people
who were working on a
rudimentary basis, what happens
is that when you have ignorance
with advanced knowledge,
the two make very
strange bedfellows.
Things can go very wrong.
>>REGINA: Information is
bastardized really quickly.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And that's
what happened.
This is why the watchers
and the Anunnaki
gets a really bad name, but
that's not how the story was.
These people were teachers.
They were slow-- they
were looking at humans
and they're saying,
well, we want
to stay away from them because
we know much more than they do,
which is a whole
story in itself.
But once in a while they would
say, go down and just teach
them how to grow crop,
domesticate wheat or something
like that, and then come back.
Just feed that into them
and see where that goes.
And that's where
we start getting
the story of the civilization of
humanity from hunter gatherers
into people who were
creating communities.
It happened suddenly
all around the world.
>>REGINA: Yes, and it has
been depicted artistically
in the novels.
For example, "Clan
of the Cave Bears."
We're talking about the
concurrent existence
of these two cultures, very
diverse cultures in terms
of knowledge and influence.
Nordic-looking, you
would say, right?
>>SILVA: Caucasian.
>>REGINA: OK, Caucasian.
>>SILVA: Which looks a
bit weird in Polynesia.
>>REGINA: It does.
But the thing is
in your book, all
of these-- in all of
these naval civilizations
where humanity was
reseeded with knowledge,
the beings that
show up are tall.
Not only do they have big eyes.
They're fair-skinned.
>>SILVA: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And the hair is normally
from blond to auburn
and a phase of red in between.
>>SILVA: A lot of
red hair in there.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
you also said--
>>SILVA: Green eyes, blue eyes.
>>REGINA: Green and
blue eyes, pale eyes.
Now how does this match up
with the Anu, for example?
How does that match up
with the Atlantean beings
that we're talking about?
>>SILVA: It matches up
perfectly because if you go--
one of the things I like doing
is traveling around the world
to strange places and asking
local people, what do you know?
What did your parents teach you?
What did your
grandparents teach you?
And what did your
predecessors write about?
And the stories all line up.
They all overlap.
And there are always
tall people who
were sages, who
were astronomers,
who got around flying
through the air almost.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Ships with no oars.
>>SILVA: Ships with no
oars and flying shields.
I'm thinking, hmm.
Someone knew about anti-gravity
and the rocks moving
to build the temples overnight
to the voice of a command
or a tone from a trumpet.
>>REGINA: Acoustic frequencies.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
So these are the same people.
And that's why I'm fascinated
about the whole story,
that we're not talking
about individual portions
of civilization.
Every culture on the
face of the Earth
talks about having a
parallel civilization,
and they weren't
unnerved by them.
They said they were human-like,
but they're not quite human.
And they weren't alien
either apparently,
because otherwise they
would have come up and said,
well, we feel very
unnerved by these people.
But no.
All of these storytellers
who are humans,
they were not unnerved by them.
They just said that they
didn't look like us.
And one of the reasons that they
call them the Shining People
or the Shining Ones
is because they
had to keep smearing
this oil on their skin
as though they
felt uncomfortable
being here on Earth
with the sunlight.
There was something
unusual about that,
and that stuck with me.
And also the fact that they had
this wonderful smell of myrrh
about them.
They dressed in long tunics.
And you get the same
story in Central America
and South America as you would
do here in the Mediterranean.
So that's what got my
attention, that we're
talking about the
same people stretched
around the world in specific
and strategic locations
around the world.
It was from there that we get
the stories of the one sage
with the seven groups of
Shining People, the seven sages.
There was always a
charismatic leader.
And this person would have
seven people with them
who knew one facet of
the knowledge of things.
One of them was the woman, but
she has all the information.
She was the one to
go to for all the--
>>REGINA: She was the database.
She consolidated it all.
Women are used to multitasking.
[LAUGHS]
>>SILVA: They don't get
much attention in history,
but when they do, they
get the central position.
>>REGINA: And just to lay a
little more background here,
just in doing some
early research in this,
it mentioned that
there were remnants
of human civilization
on Sardinia
they've dated back to
at least 350,000 years.
So that's true here too.
And that's just with little
shards of tools, and so forth.
And as it becomes
more sophisticated,
that's when we start looking
more toward modern time.
Well, not-- what they say
is 5,000 years ago, 4,000
years ago, you're predating.
You're predating
that by quite a bit.
So relatively still modern
history after the great flood.
So I think it's time that we
go out to the nuraghe and show
everybody what
we've been exploring
for the last few days.
>>SILVA: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: First of
all, we need to let
everybody know we
went to the north
because you found a very
specific alignment which
we will be talking about that's
extremely significant in dating
these structures, OK?
>>SILVA: Oh, Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so we started off
at Nuraghe Ruju, right?
Which is part of an
alignment that you're
going to explain to
us out in the field.
So first of all, let's
go to Nuraghe Yuh--
Ruju.
>>SILVA: Ruju.
>>REGINA: Not Yuhu, Ruju.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is spectacular.
>>SILVA: This may be one
of the original-- what
they call the fairy rings,
which sounds a bit weird.
Goes back to the fae people.
That's where the word
fairy comes from.
Yes, it is a supernatural
being in one-- an elemental
being in one culture.
But originally, it was
related to the fae people,
the wisdom keepers of a
very, very long lineage
said to be older
than the Egyptians.
And this is where we get
to learn about the Anu
and the Anunnaki, the
wisdom keepers who became
called the Apkallu, which
literally means sage.
And they were said to have
governed from places like this.
They described these
fairy rings where there
were nine keepers of the ring.
One of them was a woman.
And they were all presided
by one central lord,
and they basically took
charge of all the portions
of the Earth.
And they said they were--
met in councils into
towers just like this
that had the beehive shape
in the inside, which it does.
>>REGINA: Wow.
That's amazing.
This is a beehive.
It looks like, what?
About 15 feet high?
>>SILVA: A little bit more.
So we're inside an actual
island, if you'd like.
And here, this is
completely out of alignment.
You think, well, if they were
clever enough to build this,
why not build it here?
Well, if you stand here and you
just scratch down a little bit,
it narrows the gap
between the walls,
so it's aligning to the
actual solstice sunrise
as it appears through
this gap in 6,000 BC.
It's the one time the
things just line up.
And that, again, puts us
back into the time frame
of these wisdom
keepers, and we go back
to the idea of why this place is
called the nuraghe, the towers
of the giants.
Well, if you look at the
etymology of the word, which
you can find in Malta, it means
the just or rightful people.
And that was usually
the idea that there
was some group of
wisdom keepers that
knew all about the knowledge
about the stars, navigation,
mathematics, how to
bend the laws of nature.
And you hear this story
all around the world.
It's not unique to Sardinia.
It's just covered everywhere.
And these were the
places where they would
meet and have their counsel.
But they're also
places where they also
conduct secret affairs.
>>REGINA: I think it's important
to really point out here
that energetically, whether
it's our remote viewers,
whether it's each one of
us individually, each time
we tap into one of
these places, we
could be tapping into
any point in history.
And often, it's
the one that has,
as we talked about off
camera, the most dense emotion
or the most recent traumatic
or dense experience.
So we don't know
historically what time we're
tapping into in
terms of the feeling,
but they have very
distinct feelings.
And a lot of times,
we're all picking up
a similar feeling in the cave.
>>SILVA: And you
expect that from things
that have been built
for thousands of years.
I mean, they go from being
used as sacred places
to places of
assembly to hospitals
to a place of corralling
people during times of war.
And you see the nuraghe
being expanded outwards
from a central tower.
You can see the
development of the building
relative to the time and
the purpose for which it
was needed in those times.
And that's where we get
the story so confused,
and that's where
archaeology starts
getting very confused
because they accept this
as being designed as a whole
right from the beginning.
But there's no
development stage.
You have to start
with something.
>>REGINA: Right.
And sometimes these are
built on older nuraghe too.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: We have
to remember that.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And you've
pointed this out,
that the older parts
of these structures,
meaning there's more
underneath in a lot of cases,
the older they are, the
more refined and the larger
the stones are, meaning
the higher the civilization
and capability, right?
>>SILVA: Which were completely
opposite to what civilizations
are supposed to do.
You're supposed to start
off with rudimentary tools,
and then you go big
and you get really
precise and mathematical.
And here we start backwards.
We start up with major masonry,
really megalithic masonry,
beautifully fitted.
Absolutely aligned to the
stars, to its placement
on the landscape and its
positioning on the Earth's
telluric currents as well.
Each one of these
places, they sense
that the Earth has
its own web of energy,
which we can now use very
expensive equipment to measure.
If you don't have the money,
you can have dowsing equipment.
The two come up
with the same thing.
But they start from a very high
educational and intellectual
point.
>>REGINA: The earliest people.
>>SILVA: And it gets
worse as it gets older.
>>REGINA: Or you can
say we've evolved a bit.
>>SILVA: Yes.
And these places appear
to suddenly arrive
without any precedent.
They didn't just build
huts and develop into this.
Just appeared by itself.
So it must have come
from a foreknowledge
of something else that was
already a set of precedents.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>SILVA: And it basically
went downhill from there,
because if you look
outside of this building
and many others in Sardinia.
It's clear that they
were built on-- again
and again, they were
reused for other purposes,
but the construction
gets worse over time.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>SILVA: The stones get
smaller and sloppier.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: So how
about this coiled
serpent that goes around
this chamber, all the way
to the top?
There's a word for
that in Mesopotamia.
It's called sumer, which is
where Sumerian comes from,
which means coiled serpent.
And the nickname of these
people, these wisdom keepers,
was the people of the serpent.
So now we know.
We have a correlation
between a word,
a structural foundation
of a building,
and the purpose for
which it was used.
>>REGINA: God,
this is beautiful.
Ha!
>>SILVA: Wow.
So you look at the landscape.
It's a completely
designed landscape.
There are artificially flattened
mountains all the way around.
So if you were here in 6000 BC
after the sun has gone down,
Orion suddenly appears
above this flattened area
in the sky, followed shortly--
>>REGINA: So are you saying
they shaved the mountains so you
could see Orion properly?
>>SILVA: You see the
actual alignment.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>SILVA: So it must been
an incredible sight,
watching this incredible
display of Sirius chasing Orion
through the night.
So it's a lot of work.
They're obviously
great romantics.
>>REGINA: A lot of thought.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
All to have this wonderful
sense of connection
to what they call the homeland,
the original homeland.
>>REGINA: So tell me what
was most striking to you
about Ruju.
>>SILVA: Ruju was extraordinary.
It was like it was left
alone in its essence.
You just walk in.
And I think even the
camera crew picked this up.
And you just walk in
and you feel a sense
that there's something
very coherent about it.
There's an intellectual
coherence, but also
a sense of power.
A subtle power.
It doesn't have to show it off.
It just is what it is.
It's a sense of
connection to everything.
It says that you can go
in there and see clearly.
It's hard to explain
when you're actually not
there because you're trying to
take a feeling of a landscape
where you suddenly have
a clear vision of--
>>REGINA: Well, the geometry
and the energy inside
and the building
materials, the granite,
the silicon embedded in
the granite, all of this
is conducive to clear
states of consciousness.
But that's why it was
built the way it was.
>>SILVA: It's designed
to musical notation.
The shape and the height ratios
give you a certain relationship
to the energy of place,
and that contributes also
to the feel that you go
in there as a tuning fork.
You're inside the
big tuning fork.
And only a small difference
between a few meters
between here and there will
create a completely different
feeling.
The Russians had figured
this out years ago
when they were looking
at this mumbo jumbo
and they said, well,
if we build buildings
in the same manner
as these old places,
surely they can
influence people now.
And they found actually it does.
The shape of place
has a definite effect
on your sense of being.
Which also comes to--
brings us to the point of,
why these rocks?
Because there was a
lot of local stone,
but they went a long
way to get volcanic rock
to build the nuraghe.
That's a lot of work.
Then you have to shave
this really awkward stone.
Well, that has a
lot of iron in it.
It has magnetite in it.
It has a crystal in it.
You put this together, it
creates a big energy edifice.
A piezoelectric effect
is taking place.
>>REGINA: It seemed like it was
all granite and volcanic rock.
>>SILVA: In Ruju, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And that has its own power, and
it's retained within itself.
So when you go in and interact
with it, your spirit of place
and your spirit of mind,
the two meld together,
and you're somewhere else.
>>REGINA: OK.
The age again.
Recap the age of Ruju,
according to your alignments.
>>SILVA: Ah, this is where
we get into pottery shards.
And the pottery shard
people will say,
well, we went to the deep layer
of dirt in the sacred site
and we found pottery
shards and bones.
We can date those.
That's when the
site was built. No.
If you're going to go
and do stuff like this
and take the time and
the effort to build
these incredible
monuments, you're
not going to let dirt and
broken pottery stay in there.
This tells me the time when
the site was decommissioned
and dirt starts building up.
People will take shelters.
They break a pot by accident,
and that's what they're dating.
And they'll say, well, we agree
with some of the astronomers
that, yes, the sites were
astronomically significant.
And usually it's the alignment
of the doorways, the position
of what it was looking at.
And they'll say,
yes, we agree that it
was looking at the winter
solstice sunset or the sunrise
or the equinox 3,500 years ago.
And you say, OK,
we'll accept that.
But now we have the
technology and the mathematics
to be able to
project back in time
at any given spot on Earth.
And I'm looking at this on the
computer and I'm going, no.
The sun 3,000 years
ago was over here.
Once you start
going back this way
and you start
recalibrating the heavens,
because the Earth shifts
relative to its background
of stars, one degree every
72 years, things misaligned.
When we get to 6,000 BC
on the winter solstice,
things begin to take
a very unusual turn.
And not just Ruju,
but three sites
which are also aligned with it.
Or should I say, slightly
misaligned to each other.
And I'm looking at
this and I'm thinking,
these sites bear a
strong resemblance
to the belt stars of Orion.
And Orion is the
overarching constellation
in the mythology
of Sardinia, as it
is in other parts
of the world, which
brings all these people
together, by the way.
And I began to look at
the alignment of Orion,
and suddenly, 6,000 BC on
the winter solstice, bang.
You have not just the
alignment to the actual tower,
but they've artificially
flattened certain mountains
to allow for that alignment
to actually take place.
>>REGINA: Yes, we can see this.
>>SILVA: It was a
huge dramatic theater.
But also Sirius comes up
in the same locations using
the exact same alignments,
and Sirius is always
associated with wisdom
and knowledge, which
are the people we're
talking about here
who built the towers.
So it's not just Ruju.
It's also [NON-ENGLISH]
up the road.
And also Antine.
>>REGINA: Antine, which
we'll go to in just a minute.
>>SILVA: Which we'll
go in just a minute.
And if you actually stood there
at 6,000 BC as an observer,
you would see all
these three sites
matching the winter solstice
sunrise and its sunsets.
And after the sunsets
you get Orion and Sirius
following this wonderful
dance across the sky.
And at the mid-heaven you
see it right facing Ruju.
And then at the sunset,
the setting position,
we get to Santu Antine.
And the two hills
again are perfectly
flattened to allow those
two wonderful constellations
and the star to float into.
I mean, you're talking a
huge, huge cosmic display
of archeaoastronomy,
and that gives you
a pretty good, firm date.
>>REGINA: So this is
approximately 3,000 years
after the great
deluge, societies
beginning to rebuild again.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And that's just the
stuff that's on the ground.
We don't know what's below it.
But just accepting that
as a fact, which brings
up the question of, why Orion?
>>REGINA: And I just
still can't get over
the notion we're so
lucky that we're here
at a point in history,
we can just wander up.
There's no gatekeeper.
There's no one there.
You don't have to buy a ticket.
But all of these beautiful sites
we went to that we're looking
at right now-- and we're
going to go to number two
in a moment--
we just walked up to
unimpeded and crawled inside.
Let's hope it stays that way
for people in the future.
So now we go to Oes.
Is it called Oes?
>>SILVA: Oes.
>>REGINA: Oes.
We go to Oes.
>>SILVA: You're never sure
in this part of the world.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: The language is
always a little bit dodgy.
>>REGINA: We think
it's called Oes.
But now, this is the only
one I did not go with you to.
You went on your own, and we did
just a very brief encapsulation
here.
So tell us about
that particular site.
>>SILVA: It was a site I
felt that had been designed
for a specific purpose and
intention originally, which
then had been expanded.
And something kind
of changed that when
it was used as a
fortification, which,
to all intents and
purposes, that's what
appears to have happened here.
There was a feel
of almost dread,
of anger, of the world
closing in on you.
So if you're able to project
your consciousness back
to the time when
it was built, you
get a sense that, OK, this was
actually a very coherent space.
It was used as a kind of
a mind projection edifice.
But then because
of time and the--
>>REGINA: Human activities.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: --and human
activity, something darker
was attached to it.
And everybody kind of felt a
little bit more sort of, well,
I think I preferred Ruju
up the road to this one,
because there hadn't
been-- it hadn't
succumbed to human folly.
It was left by itself
for some reason.
>>REGINA: It was.
It was very clean.
Very clean energy.
>>SILVA: You sense a palpable
feel between one and the other.
And any person, normal
person would go up to these
and say, well, but they're all
towers, but no, they're not.
They're all subtly different.
That's why they have
that effect on you.
>>REGINA: OK.
I want to take everybody
over to Santu Antine.
Very impressive sight.
Very strange energy.
I meditated in each of the
places, as I think most of us
did, and received a really
kind of interesting look
at that one in particular.
>>SILVA: Very much so.
>>REGINA: And there was
quite a bit of fear factor,
and it was very dense, so
I was uncomfortable there.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And our producer Jason
was uncomfortable there too.
As soon as he walked up,
oh, this place feels creepy.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHS]
We can't have that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so-- I mean, and
again, and this-- we're
going to get to this again
with the remote viewers in just
a minute with another location.
But let's talk
about Santu Antine.
Let's talk about
not the energy of it
that we experience, but
the actual alignments
and the structure itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Ooh, this is beautiful
walking in here.
It's gorgeous.
>>SILVA: Very different.
Again, the predominant
constellation
in this part of the
world was Orion.
And Sirius, which is a
mark of the knowledge,
that people held the knowledge.
They're talking about
how Orion, for example,
chases a Taurus through the sky.
And you've got Heracles chasing
the Cretan bull, as well.
I'm thinking it sounds
too good to be true,
that Heracles may be
another variation of Orion
in one sense.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>SILVA: And that's why he's
so associated with Sardinia.
And he was told, if you want to
join the company of the gods,
you have to go and literally
take your offspring
and make them into the
chiefs of Sardinia,
or whatever it was
called back then.
So we have this establishment
of a half-human, half-divine
bloodline from the myth
of Sardinia itself.
>>REGINA: That's a
primitive stairwell.
>>SILVA: Yeah, that's a
very good observation.
I mean--
>>REGINA: That's, like, three--
>>SILVA: --humans, a
normal, average person--
I mean, I'm quite tall.
I'm 6 foot 5".
Even I am going to have a
little trouble getting--
>>REGINA: No, that's like hand
over, trying to climb up there.
>>SILVA: But those steps are
definitely built for people who
were big--
>>REGINA: Like you, giants.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SILVA: My understanding of
how these sites came together
is a mirror image on the
ground of the belt of Orion
at that particular era.
And it goes back to the central
tower of Santu Antine, which
is unusual by itself.
It has a double beehive
chamber, which is extraordinary.
I've never seen anything
quite like this before.
And at the bottom one you
have these four alcoves,
each one aligned to
the compass points,
as though some very
intellectual exercise
was being conducted in there.
That's the central
part of the site.
That's the original
Because if you stare
out of the doorway,
you're looking at a
blank wall and you think,
they would never have
done that because there's
a light box on top of the
doorway which would allow
the sunlight of
the winter solstice
to come flooding
into the chamber.
Why would you block that
with a wall in front of it?
And that's what you
were picking up as well
was the later stage
where they turned it
into a big fortification.
And now it's like a labyrinth
of corridors and towers.
And yeah, and you can see the
progression from knowledge
to spirituality to
fear, which brings us
into the historic period
of about 1500, 2000 BC.
There were marauding
people on Sardinia
and now we can establish
that as a fact.
>>REGINA: All these little
crevices and walkways.
>>SILVA: These were
built for big people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So Freddy, you've
never seen this
before where the beehive we were
just in, that little chamber we
meditated in for a bit,
we're now standing above it,
and there's a second beehive.
>>SILVA: Short
beehive chamber, which
seems to be about half the
size of the one below it.
And it faces out onto
a beautiful window,
again, with a
light box above it,
which is usually a sign that
it's pointing to a rising
object so that the light comes
in here, hits the alcove,
and that seems to, again,
match the sunrise in 6000 BC.
>>REGINA: But look
at the construction
compared to the one below.
>>SILVA: But here's
the fun part,
and this is where we have to
do a bit of lateral thinking.
So whatever it was, it
was important enough
to measure some object
rising on the horizon
twice, because you'd
see it here first
and then you'd go down
to the floor below
and you see it rising up again.
So it's obviously
important enough--
it could have been the fact that
there's two objects rising one
above the other.
>>REGINA: Well, and it's
also thought in the Sardinian
history, again, one of the
researchers here that's been
on it for a lot of years,
Sergio Frau believes--
and this aligns with some of the
great philosophers of Greece--
that there was another
deluge that happened where
the coastline was inundated.
And they say the evidence
they found was almost like--
they called it a mud Pompeii.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: You know, jewelry,
pots, pieces of pottery
and dishes all roiled
together in this mud.
So it may have been--
and they believe
that there was a piece
of meteorite that
crashed into the
environment in the sea,
and it crashes in-- apparently,
I think they calculate it
at 20 kilometers a second, which
creates quite a tidal wave,
so the coastal regions
were wiped out again.
>>SILVA: Yes, exactly.
And I think it's around 3000
BC, if I'm not mistaken.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I think
they say around 3100, 3200.
I think one of the
guesses was 1175 BC.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
It shifted the weather.
It shifted apparently the stars.
The actual rotation of the Earth
actually stopped for a few days
because they talk about in
Asia, actually in China,
the sun staying in
the sky for three
days in the same location.
And on the opposite
side of the world,
the moon stayed in the same
location for three days.
Everything stopped.
And from that moment, we go from
a spiritual concept of the land
to a much more
protective concept.
People are now
working with fear.
>>REGINA: They're
They're hiding anywhere they
can just to sustain themselves.
>>SILVA: And that's
when you begin
to adapt the old sites
to a protective state.
And we see that in Northern
Europe as well in England,
for example.
Stonehenge goes from being one
circle to being two circles.
They began to re-adapt
the sacred sites
to the new alignments
in the sky.
So that's been played
out here as well.
And yes, there was a comet
that hit the Mediterranean,
and it did create
a lot of havoc.
And it wiped out-- it
was also responsible
for wiping out part of the
Bronze Age culture later.
There's another event that
happened later on after that.
We live in a very
volatile solar system.
In fact, the
ancients kept saying
that in no way are
the-- actually,
this is a direct quote
from the Chinese.
In no way are the orbits
of the planets fixed.
Once in a while, things come
from outside the solar system
and it hits the planets,
shakes them off their orbits,
and then it influences us,
and things hit us as well.
I mean, we've had 13 cataclysms
since the flood in 9700 BC.
So we live in fairly
interesting times all the time.
>>REGINA: We do.
And I think sometimes
when people hear this,
it gives a sense of
futility to being human.
It's like, this isn't fair.
We build it up.
And it's like
watching someone smash
some little kid's sandcastle
and you start all over again,
except with no memory--
we'll talk about that in a
little bit-- with no memory,
starting again and
again and again.
So this happened once again.
But there are these
markers of consistency.
So the whole point
of this is that there
was an advanced civilization
that originally settled it,
and many of these
nuraghe have been
built upon by subsequent
invaders, colonizers,
and so forth?
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
It's been adapted.
You can look at
all the stuff here.
This was all adaptation for
habitation much, much later.
Again, when you have a site
that's 8,000 years old,
it's going to go through
a lot of changes,
a lot of adaptations.
And you can see it where
things have been adapted
that don't quite make sense.
It's more utilitarian.
The rest of it's simply much
more astronomically aligned.
It's much more purposeful in
terms of a spiritual context.
And that wouldn't serve
people who were being raided.
We're now talking
about 1,500 BC where
there was a lot of
raiding going on
in Sardinia, so
it follows nicely
with the historical track.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Indeed.
So as random and
inconsistent, the effect
it has on this species,
this amnesiac sense
of having to drag ourselves
up and start over, again,
all over the world, there are
some markers of consistency.
And it always seems to point
back, as we mentioned earlier,
in these-- at least these
sacred sites around the world
to Orion.
Why Orion?
What's the significance of
Orion to this planet and to us?
>>SILVA: That was
the big question
I was asking for
the book project,
and that was, why do all the
cultures around the Earth
talk about Orion?
What is the significance?
I mean, yeah, we look out of
the sky on a balcony and we go,
there's Orion.
It's a pretty--
it's in your face.
But more importantly,
why are they
so adamant about it being
the half of the universe,
the light of heaven,
the light of the sky,
a point of creation?
It depends who
you're talking to.
They talk about the same thing.
Well, it turns out that one of
the original sages of the Anu
was called Uanna.
That's where Orion comes from.
Orion is a Greek
translation of Sumerian.
So Uanna was actually one of
the main priests, the magician
priests of the people of Anu.
Which brings us back again to
Sardinia and the tall people.
And they were very tall.
There were seven sages.
And that these were the people
that basically come from this--
they either come
from Orion, or they
have a spiritual
connection to Orion,
or they found the way
to go from the physical
to the spiritual in Orion.
Again, it's the same story
overlapping around the world.
And the more I talk
to Indigenous people,
the more they say
actually, it's all three.
It's a metaphor, a symbol,
and back in the day
they could go
backwards and forwards
in this sort of portal,
this tube they called it
between the stars.
And they go there
because they could.
They had this understanding
of the laws of nature,
which sounds strange to us.
But when you hear this again
and again around the world
and you see that these people
were human-like and yet
not quite human,
you begin to wonder,
was this perhaps something to
do with a group of people that
were either stationed
here, were dropped here,
or were left here from
a long, long time ago?
Which in my mind
suggests this is
why they didn't
want to communicate
with humans that much.
They wanted to be a society
aside from human people.
They had a complete
different understanding
to hunter gatherers.
And in order to live here in
harmony with human beings,
they had to divulge the
information that they
had, slowly drip feeding it.
And we see the vestiges
of their culture
in the words, the deeds, the
mythology, and also the things
that they built,
because wherever
you go from whether it's
the Mediterranean all
the way to Central
America or South America,
the same construction
technology.
And it's the same people that
are doing it all the time.
So that's why Orion
was important.
It seems to be a creative point
in the center of the universe
that all Indigenous
people go back to again
and again and again.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And now I'll tell you another
a little bit of esoterica.
Two unrelated sources
were sharing with me
the journey of the watchers
in different times,
different interviews, and such.
And one of them was
saying that the people--
these beings, these
nonphysical beings
went through a process
of densification
in order to be of service
wherever they were.
And one of them--
before coming to Earth,
one of the trajectories
was considered
to be from the Crab
Nebula through to Orion,
to Sirius, Venus, Earth.
And this was the trajectory,
becoming more and more and more
third dimensional in the process
to be able to be in this given
place-- and I'm sure
there are many others--
to be able to hold energies,
hold knowledge, and be
of service when help was needed.
Which is the journey
of the watchers.
>>SILVA: And that's
something that
pops up again in traditions
all around the world.
The watchers could take on human
form "whenever they wanted,"
quote.
>>REGINA: But not easily.
>>SILVA: Not easily.
They didn't have
a good time here.
>>REGINA: Very, very
difficult for their being.
Exactly.
>>SILVA: They had to
have the tall structure.
They had the elongated
skulls, which
we find in Sardinia and in other
pinch points around the world.
They had the red hair.
But they said, we
had a hard time
being here because it was such
a physical, dense dimension.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: So for
anyone who understands
molecular structures and the
mechanics of nature, for them
it was easy as you and I going
shopping to buy a bowl of soup.
They could just bend
nature like that
and they could be in
two places at once.
And suddenly it makes
sense, because again,
if these people 10,000,
11,000 years ago,
if they weren't
communicating with each other
according to
Orthodox belief, how
is it that the stories
overlap, and in some cases are
practically identical?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: They had to come
from a central source,
and everybody was
sharing the same story,
and they were all in contact
with the same people.
And that's what fascinates
me, the fact that we do
have a parallel civilization
working with humans,
and this is why humans were
not really afraid of them.
They felt them to
be very helpful.
And after the deluge,
there were groups
which came-- appeared
suddenly all around the world
at strategic points.
Seven people, seven sages.
One was a woman.
And there was an eighth central
figure with the large eyes,
and he was married to
this woman of wisdom
who was also his sister,
which I believe to be a symbol
more than--
>>REGINA: Or Isis and Osiris.
>>SILVA: Yeah, Isis and Osiris.
Viracocha and his wife.
Even the Waitaha
of New Zealand who
have an oral tradition
spanning 12,000 years,
they talk about the
same people as well.
And it was their
charge to then rebuild
in the names of the
Egyptians-- and it
was the Egyptians-- rebuild
the former world of the gods.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: Rebuild the
temples in the image
from where they had come from.
And this explains why
the temples appear out
of nowhere, completely
constructed,
complete mythologies,
complete understanding
of the laws of physics,
mathematics, astrology,
and astronomy.
Where did this come from?
Unless they were hallucinating,
which I am open to.
>>REGINA: Collectively.
>>SILVA: Collectively.
But at the same time,
every sixth civilization
arrives prepackaged like
IKEA just drops by and says,
OK, here's a temple.
We've really come
up with a story.
Just build it.
>>REGINA: Here are
your furnishings.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
Here are your furnishings.
And that explained-- suddenly
everything falls into place
when you recognize that
there was a parallel culture.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about something else.
And we're going to
throw this in before we
go to another one of the sites,
the most famous site here,
Barumini But before
that, now we've
just laid down the history
of why Orion is significant.
But the giants and the
presence of these people,
let's go to the Solomon
Islands because I found--
I didn't know this.
You told this to us when we were
driving in the car, in the van
yesterday.
This is fascinating.
>>SILVA: Yes, I had no
intention of talking
about giants in the book.
>>REGINA: You talked
about it several times.
And again, that's
why I kept saying,
Freddy, we need
to do this thing.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: Because it was
a whole story in itself.
There's tall people and
then there's giant people.
And the more I kept
reading about the stories--
again, starting
with New Zealand,
which, hardly anyone knows about
the prehistory of New Zealand
apart from this group of
people called the Waitaha.
And they said every year when we
used to live in Easter Island,
11,000 years ago before the
flood, the gods used to come
around and hang out with us.
And they were very tall, very
puissant, beautiful people.
Light skins.
>>REGINA: And
that's thought to be
the remaining-- the remnant
of Lemuria, Easter Island is.
So let's go ahead--
so again, we just
start looking at some of
the migration patterns.
Go ahead.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
And they were everywhere.
And they got around easily
as you and I go shopping
at the supermarket
because they used
mostly catamarans from
what I understand.
Massive ships.
People in Tonga still
build them the same way.
And they basically set up
bases in strategic part
of the world, which became known
as the birthplaces of the gods
or the navel of the
Earth, and so forth.
And whenever you
go to these places,
you do see a sudden flowering of
civilization, megalithic temple
building.
And the knowledge which
forms the foundation
of all civilization
spreads out like ripples
in a pond to all the people
that come within their vicinity.
And this is where
humans start developing
that sense of community
and agriculture
and starts developing
there then in turn.
And this is why the gods
were so appreciated.
They took them out
of a big problem
where everybody's living
in barbaric states
after everything's completely
run over by massive waves,
and they gave them the
accouterments of civilization.
>>REGINA: But in
the Solomon Islands,
we're not speaking past tense.
>>SILVA: We're still talking
in the present tense.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about these beings
and some of your
odd experiences.
>>SILVA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: This is fascinating.
Can you talk about it?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
Going back to the
Solomon Islands,
I found that in the Polynesia
area there's a lot of stories
going back into the '50s and
the 1920s of ordinary people,
a young child going--
walking in the beach and coming
across a massive skeleton.
The flesh is still attached.
And it's not a whale.
It's not a dolphin.
It's a human being.
And a couple of them stand out.
One of them was 18 feet tall.
And there was a record of it
where a flatbed truck comes
over from the local
counsel, picks up
this massive person,
red hair still attached.
They put him on the
back of the truck,
and that's the last
time you hear about it.
Official secrets act, boom.
Stamped.
>>REGINA: Right.
They always disappear,
all over the world.
America's one of the
worst at spiriting away
the giants that are in all of
these Native American lands
around the country, including
California, Nevada, Arizona,
and so forth, and of course,
the Midwest, the famous ones
in Ohio, Michigan.
>>SILVA: No different
to anywhere else.
>>REGINA: Every country
takes these bones.
Some official organization
or institution
comes and gets them.
You never hear about it again.
But they're still present,
so this is interesting.
>>SILVA: Solomon Islands.
And in the Second World War
when the US Navy personnel was
stationed there, they said,
we all slept with a revolver
under the pillow.
And I thought, well, that
sounds quite right if you're
expecting a Japanese military
person to come by with a gun.
Of course, you want to be ready.
But said, no, that wasn't
why we kept the revolvers.
We kept them because
of these really tall
18-foot-tall people, these
giants with massive red hair.
And the local villagers,
they weren't afraid of them,
but they scared
the hell out of us.
Military people
don't talk like that.
That's why I love these stories.
And today in the
Solomon Islands,
which are really quite
remote within themselves--
I mean, most of it's forested,
mosquito-infested, tons
of snakes everywhere,
very mountainous,
it's hard to get
into the interior.
And the local villagers will
say, well, once in a while
we'll be driving along
a mountain track.
The truck will
start off the road.
It rolls over.
We'll have to go back 15
miles to the local village
to get a truck to winch
the whole thing out.
We go back the following day.
The truck is back on
the road, upright.
>>REGINA: With its load intact.
>>SILVA: With the load intact.
Exactly.
As if a bunch of eggs
have been spilled.
They put the eggs back,
that kind of thing.
And they said, it's the giants.
They're actually very helpful.
They're very shy.
And we leave them alone
and they leave us alone.
It's a lovely entendre.
And they said that they get
from A to B across the Solomon
Islands through
the tunnels, which
are made out of the
limestone, which is fine.
But the tunnels are
self-illuminating.
There's something within
the actual crystal or quartz
structure or the
mineral structure
of the rock which allows
them to be self-illuminating.
And the other time I found
that story is actually
in the Bible, which was, again,
lifted from the Mesopotamian
tradition.
That's been proven to be true.
They talk about Yima, who was
like a prototype for Noah.
And they said that in order
to see inside the ark,
they had a window which
was-- or a light that
was self-shining from within.
So some kind of rock that they
knew that gave a certain light.
And they said in
the Solomon Islands,
this is how they get around from
A to B through the mountains.
And we're quite happy with them.
They just want to be
left by themselves.
>>REGINA: I love this story.
Let's bring it back
to Sardinia now.
We have another of the
nuraghe we want to go to,
and it's the most famous one.
I mean, when you look
at it from above,
it raises a lot of questions
like, who were these people?
Where were they from?
Because this looks almost like
ancient Celtic structures.
But first of all,
this site, we need
to just state we had a whole
day scheduled with sites
in the South of Sardinia, OK?
And we had been OKed.
And then all of a sudden
the boss comes along.
I don't know what he did.
Must have looked around.
Must have had bad experiences
with American production teams.
I don't know.
But all our permits
were canceled.
All of them, including the
most famous site, Barumini.
But it was our good luck because
we got something even better.
And that's-- I believe in
things working out the way
they're supposed to.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: So even though we
were grumbling, we thought,
we can't shoot it,
but we're going
to go over and at
least as tourists
take some pictures of this site.
Look at this from above.
It's just absolutely incredible.
But this was the Barumini
nuraghe, the famous Barumini.
Let's just go ahead and touch
on the dating that you had done,
your projections for it.
>>SILVA: Oh, I was quite
happy with 6000 BC.
I thought, this is pretty good.
But again, you don't put your
projections into anything.
You've got to let the
information and the evidence
follow its own course.
Otherwise, it would
be easy to do.
And I was looking at the
alignment of Barumini
and I thought, wait a minute.
This is just going
off towards the south.
The alignment is
towards the south.
What the hell could be aligned
towards the south at that era?
And of course, nothing matches.
There's no connection to
sunrises or moonrises,
which is usually a safe place
to go with sacred sites.
Now we're getting to
7300 BC and the rising
of Orion's belt
over the horizon,
exactly through a gap in
the distant mountains.
These things were actually
placed very strategically
to take the landscape.
So the landscape
becomes part of the--
>>REGINA: Right.
Utilizing the landscape.
>>SILVA: You have to go there
to actually look at the site
and see what they were
looking at because then it
makes a lot of sense.
You can't do this on a computer.
And that's what blew
my mind, that there was
an even earlier culture here.
And we're slowly
moving back in time.
And the earliest-- the oldest
I ever found here in Sardinia
was about 7500 so far.
And that's over 24
sites I've analyzed,
and there's thousands of them.
So god knows what
else is still to come.
But it definitely looks
like it's been extended
from a central tower again.
You get the sense of power.
But then again, you've got all
these other towers and myriad
of labyrinths that
have been added,
and that's what we're getting--
>>REGINA: These circles
after circle after circle.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: Discombobulated stuff.
I did feel that, yes, there
was a time there was--
the place looked like it
was sieged at one point.
And you get that sense
of siege, of fear.
People were going to
die of starvation.
And I get that at
Teotihuacan as well.
That's why I never
go to Teotihuacan.
I'd love to go, but I can't
get over all the sacrifices
that were being done there.
50,000 people killed in one day.
I can't get past that.
>>REGINA: Well, the
remote viewing team
couldn't get past
the feelings of it.
Let's also take a moment just
to view some of the drawings
that the remote viewers did
of Barumini in that area.
Now, they did the
same thing about Ruju
up north and all these
conical structures.
You can see they
were pretty right on.
Let's see what Angela
had to say about that.
She was the one that gave
us the condensed report.
Angela, hey, it's
so good to see you.
>>ANGELA THOMPSON:
It's very nice
to be here and meet
you again, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I'm in a 16th century
hotel room in Sardinia
and open rafters all around me.
And I'm glad we
have Wi-Fi signal.
There was some concern about it.
But let's talk about how
we got together on this
and what you were
tasked with doing
as just a little
background for people that
are looking at this right now.
>>THOMPSON: You had mentioned
that there was a project
that you would like some remote
viewers to look at and send me
some background information,
some nonleading coordinates, et
cetera.
And I sent that out
to six other viewers,
and then I had two operational
training students that I also
gave the project to.
Most of them used
controlled remote viewing,
which is a method
that was developed
by Ingo Swann and Harold Puthoff
at Stanford Research Institute.
And it's a sequential
written and verbal process.
You have a stack of
white paper and a pen,
and you go through a process
accessing more and more
detailed information.
And I was really impressed
with what the viewers had
got, particularly their
sketches and their descriptions
of the first two locations.
>>REGINA: Yes.
They really did do a
good, credible job.
And let's talk about
what they perceived
as some of the functions
of these, particularly
where we're looking at
the clusters of circular--
stone circles.
>>THOMPSON: The
primary function they
saw was really as a defense.
It was like a fort.
These were for
people to go inside,
to cluster inside if need be.
But there were also
very spiritual aspects,
that these were perhaps tombs.
They were spiritual temples
almost in some respect.
So there was very much
a spiritual aspect
to the whole-- of
both complexes.
And so there were just multiple
uses for these locations.
They weren't like
Stonehenge that
would have been an
iconic place where
they went to look at the
sun, moon, and stars,
although that came up too.
>>REGINA: That there were
astronomical alignments, yes.
>>THOMPSON:
Astronomical alignment,
but that wasn't
their sole function.
They served a very practical
purpose for the people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And some of them talked
about this energetic use
that was of a consciousness
that we may not understand
at this point in time.
>>THOMPSON: Yeah.
So there was more
that was hidden
knowledge, hidden spiritual
knowledge at the site.
>>REGINA: What's interesting
is these remote viewers aren't
given any information,
not even coordinates.
They get a code.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And then she
knows underneath it
where the coordinates
are, but they don't know.
They're doing cold
reads, military-style.
And it's interesting
what you see here.
They found they did not
like the feeling of it.
Meanwhile, back to what
I was saying earlier,
Angela's read on it was
these very, very hardy
and with some knowledge people
had traveled from the north,
and it almost seemed to
be they were bringing
a technology with them similar
to the old Saxon ruins and such
and these stone
circular walls and such.
Let's talk about the notion of
where the people may have come
from because there
are-- again, it's
civilization on top
of civilization.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
And the names change over time,
which makes it really difficult
to figure out.
The one that keeps coming up
again and again because it's
one of the few surviving
written stories, which ends up
being the Book of Enoch,
which is-- there's
a very old version
of that in Ethiopian.
Not that I read
Ethiopian, but if you
want to get the real story
before it becomes Christianized
or Hebrewized, you have to go
back to the origin of the story
before the politics kicks in.
And the Babylonians said the
same thing about this as well.
And they seem to be centered
somewhere around the Caucasus
region, somewhere between
the Black Sea and the Caspian
Sea where ironically, a lot
of the DNA of the skulls
from Caracas in Peru with
the long heads, their DNA
goes back to that region.
Well, if we follow some of
the stories from the Egyptians
and the followers of
Horus who essentially
were the same people--
>>REGINA: The Shining
Ones, the same group,
which is the realm of the
sun, the representatives that
come to help from the realm
of the sun into our dimension.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And they were also
fascinated with Orion.
And then you have
a Roman emperor
that talks about the
Scythian culture, which comes
from around the Black Sea.
And he says this offhand remark.
They're even older
than the Egyptians.
And I'm thinking, this
must be the same people
called the Anu at one point.
Well, it turns out that
actually, they are.
The Scythians and the
Anu are the same people.
And when they began to
go west through Europe
as the ice is melting
through Central Europe--
we're now back at the
end of the Ice Age--
they start giving the
names to the places.
For example, the River Danube.
The river, the Danube,
which then becomes--
it goes westwards.
It becomes the
people of the Anu,
which becomes Tuatha de Danaan.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: And from there,
from Central Europe
they go southwards towards the--
they were looking for an island
again, I'm sure,
because again, they want
to recreate their former world.
And back then,
Sardinia and Corsica
were actually connected.
And that would have made
a very, very large piece
of real estate.
And that's where the
essence of the people coming
from the north, from Europe,
ended up in Sardinia.
So that seems to
match what the--
>>REGINA: That's
very interesting.
And I'm going to
confirm that with Angela
because she's not aware
of what we're finding yet.
>>SILVA: Oh, good.
>>REGINA: So we're
going to go both ways
and have another
conversation with her about
that because she was very clear
in, what was the strongest
thing she got?
It was the migratory path of the
people coming into this region.
Now, we don't know if there
are the same influences
up north where we were
at the other nuraghe we
were in a little bit ago.
So right at this point, we know
that there are 20,000 to 30,000
of these things
around the island.
We've learned that the deeper we
go into the foundations of it,
the more sophisticated
and advanced
the culture appeared to be.
You would go so far as saying
it does appear that acoustics--
which are mentioned in the
Bible and other texts--
acoustics were
probably known and used
to move these massive stones.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
Every culture talks
about the rocks
being moved to the sound
of a voice or a trumpet.
And again, if you go
to Central America,
they do talk about the
Waru or the Huari, who
were the megalithic builders.
Except that if you
go to Polynesia
and you mention
that word of Huari
they say, actually,
that's a trumpet.
The Waru is a trumpet.
And in Central America and
South America with the Shining
Ones who were the helpers of
Viracocha and his seven people,
they said that, yes,
we used the trumpets
to move the stones from A to B.
And there's a wonderful
parallel here in modern life
where about 20 years ago,
Princeton of all people,
there's a certain laboratory
that actually looked
at the composition of
the stone primarily used
in these temples.
It has a specific
type of quartz.
And they actually threw sound
frequency at a lump of quartz,
and the lump gets to levitate.
So we're now coming--
science is now finally
beginning to catch up
with 12,000 years of
myth and tradition
that, yes, these things were
literally built overnight.
>>REGINA: Well, even the
whole area of cymatics,
just watching these beautiful
geometrical movements take
place in the sand to sound.
And so there are many ways
in which in the modern world
we're beginning to prove
that sound can move matter.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And also the fact that
it's the geometry of sound
as well, because when sound
hits a physical medium you
get the sacred geometry.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: And they
again looked at nature.
This is what I'm talking
about, how these people--
even here in
Sardinia they'll say,
they have complete control
of the laws of nature.
Well, if you have
that level of control
you can see things on
a macroscopic level.
You can see how
sound, when it starts
to actually go into the--
let's say this cup, for example.
If you're looking at this
under the microscope,
under an electron microscope,
you won't see the physical--
>>REGINA: Well, you can shatter
glass if it's fine glass.
You shatter glass with sound.
>>SILVA: Even more
importantly, it's a structure.
The molecules that make up the
cup, it's geometric in nature.
And that brings us back to
why these sites are geometric.
There's a relationship
between the outer walls,
the inner beehive, and
the corkscrew staircase
that goes around.
An architect would say,
well, it's practical.
Well, yes, it is.
You have to get to
the top of the tower.
But it's also the relationship
of the walls to the exterior,
to the height creates
its own feeling.
And also, the fact
that the coils--
>>REGINA: The coils,
serpentine energy,
and the way energy moves.
Yes.
>>SILVA: It's a symbol of
the coiled serpent, which
actually means the sumer.
That's where the name
Sumeria comes from,
which is the origin of
the people of the Anu.
So these things are all
here still in Sardinia.
You have to look at the
etymology and the shape
in which things were made.
>>REGINA: It's been just beyond
a treat of discovery for us
because as I mentioned
before-- it does.
It really messes with
your head a little bit
and your perception of life.
But also again, as I
said, to have it so raw,
wild, and available to us.
That's what's allowed you
to get these measurements,
and I'm very, very
grateful for that.
But even though we
were not allowed
to shoot some of the sights in
the south, we were so lucky.
We had a woman named Rosela
with us who Paola knows,
which is how we're-- why
we're all here to begin with.
And Rosela is our
local Sardinian guide.
She's a teacher.
She knows these sites very well.
She's also very spiritually
developed, a beautiful soul.
And Rosela told us
beforehand, no worries.
We need to go to
this other place.
Paola and Rosela and I were
talking about this other place
where the women's
rituals happen,
but we hadn't exactly
explained it to you guys yet,
so no one knew what
this was about.
So now that we've collapsed
our other possibilities
because we're not
permitted, it's
like, let's go to the place
Rosela's talking about.
>>SILVA: We'll develop
our feminine side.
>>REGINA: What a treat
that turned out to be.
So I mean, I just thought it was
a magnificent day of surprise
after surprise, and
mishaps as well,
which we're going to talk
about in our next episode.
But it's something that
none of us expected.
And I'm glad you were on
the journey, because we're
going to hear about--
>>SILVA: I know.
>>REGINA: We're going to hear
from you on that too as a man
experiencing that energy.
So in our next
episode, we're going
to be headed to these incredibly
ancient pre-Nuragic caves where
women's sexual rights were
practiced in the ancient past.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]